# V13 Update Guide

## Angular CLI update

NgRx supports using the Angular CLI `ng update` command to update your dependencies. Migration schematics are run to make the upgrade smoother. These schematics will fix some of the breaking changes.

To update your packages to the latest released version, run the command below.

```sh
ng update @ngrx/store@13
```

## Dependencies

Version 13 has the minimum version requirements:

- Angular version 13.x
- Angular CLI version 13.x
- TypeScript version 4.4.x
- RxJS version 6.5.x, 6.6.x, or 7.4.x

## Breaking changes

### @ngrx/store

#### Variadic tuple types for createSelector

The `createSelector` can now be combined with an unlimited amount of child selectors, which was previously limited to 8 child selectors.

<div class="alert is-helpful">

A migration is provided to update the generic types of createSelector.

</div>

BEFORE:

```ts
const selector = createSelector<State, Customer, Order[], CustomerWithOrder>
```

AFTER:

```ts
//                  needs to be a tuple 👇
const selector =  createSelector<State, [Customer, Order[]], CustomerWithOrder>
```

#### Action creator props

The `props` of an action created with `createAction` can't be a primitive type (`string`, `number`, `boolean`).
Additionally, the error messages are updated to be more explicit about what is wrong.

BEFORE:

```ts
const action = createAction('[Source] Event', props<string>());
```

AFTER:

```ts
const action = createAction('[Source] Event', props<{ name: string }>());
```

#### StoreModule.forFeature with FeatureSlice

The `StoreModule.forFeature()` method doesn't accept a configuration object anymore.

BEFORE:

```ts
StoreModule.forFeature(
  featureSlice,
  { initialState: 100, metaReducers: [metaReducer] }
);

StoreModule.forFeature(
  { name: 'feature', reducer: featureReducer },
  { initialState: 100, metaReducers: [metaReducer] }
);
```

AFTER:

```ts
StoreModule.forFeature(
  featureSlice
);

StoreModule.forFeature(
  { name: 'feature', reducer: featureReducer },
);
```

#### StoreModule initialState config

The `initialState` provided via the configuration object is now typed and needs to match the interface of the state interface.

#### Testing: Reset mock store

Mock stores are not reset automagically after each test.

To restore the previous behavior you add add your own reset logic in an `afterEach` hook. 
Note that this only applicable when the Angular `TestBed` isn't teared down by Angular, for more info see the [ModuleTeardownOptions options](https://angular.io/api/core/testing/ModuleTeardownOptions).

When using Jasmine, reset the mock store after each test by adding the following to the `test.ts`:

```ts
import { MockStore } from '@ngrx/store/testing';

jasmine.getEnv().afterEach(() => {
  TestBed.inject(MockStore)?.resetSelectors();
});
```

When using Jest, reset the mock store after each test by using a `afterEach` hook:

```ts
import { MockStore } from '@ngrx/store/testing';

afterEach(() => {
  TestBed.inject(MockStore)?.resetSelectors();
});
```

### @ngrx/schematics

#### create-effect-migration

The `create-effect-migration` migration has been removed.
It's now added to the automated migration (run with `ng-update`) of the `@ngrx/effects` module.
This replaces all references to `@Effect` (which is deprecated) with the `createEffect` method.

### @ngrx/data

The `queryManySuccess` query sets the `loaded` flag to `true`.


### @ngrx/component

#### PushPipe

`PushPipe` no longer has a class-level generic type parameter.
This change is needed to make `PushPipe` work with strict templates.
It affects the use of `PushPipe` outside of component templates.


## Deprecations

### @ngrx/store

#### createFeatureSelector

The `createFeatureSelector<State, FeatureState>` method with two generics, has been deprecated.
Instead, only provide the `FeatureState` generic.

<div class="alert is-helpful">

A migration is provided to update the generic types of `createFeatureSelector`.

</div>

BEFORE:

```ts
const selectFeature = createFeatureSelector<State, Feature>('feature');
```

AFTER:

```ts
const selectFeature = createFeatureSelector<Feature>('feature');
```

#### Selectors With Props

Selectors with props are deprecated in favor of "normal" factory selectors.
Factory selectors have the following benefits:

- easier to write and to teach
- selectors are typed
- child selectors are correctly memoized

BEFORE:

```ts
const selectCustomer = createSelector(
    selectCustomers,
    (customers, props: { customerId: number }) => {
      return customers[props.customerId];
    }
);

// Or if the selector is already defined as a factory selector

const selectCustomer = () =>
  createSelector(
    selectCustomers,
    (customers, props: { customerId: number }) => {
      return customers[props.customerId];
    }
  );
```

AFTER:

```ts
const selectCustomer = (customerId: number) =>
  createSelector(
    selectCustomers,
    (customers) => {
      return customers[customerId];
    }
  );
```


### @ngrx/effects

#### @Effect decorator

The `@Effect` decorator is deprecated in favor of `createEffect`.
See the [docs](/guide/effects#writing-effects) for more info.

<div class="alert is-helpful">

A migration is provided to update to remove the `@Effect` decorator, and to wrap the effect within a `createEffect` method.

</div>
