# V14 Update Guide

## Angular CLI update

NgRx supports using the Angular CLI `ng update` command to update your dependencies. Migration schematics are run to make the upgrade smoother. These schematics will fix some of the breaking changes.

To update your packages to the latest released version, run the command below.

```sh
ng update @ngrx/store@14
```

## Dependencies

Version 14 has the minimum version requirements:

- Angular version 14.x
- Angular CLI version 14.x
- TypeScript version 4.6.x
- RxJS version ^6.5.3 || ^7.5.0

## Breaking changes

### @ngrx/router-store

#### Default serialized and serializer names

- Renamed `DefaultRouterStateSerializer` to `FullRouterStateSerializer` (used with `RouterState.Full`)
- `MinimalRouterStateSerializer` is the default serializer (used with `RouterState.Minimal`)

<div class="alert is-helpful">
  A migration is provided to rename `DefaultRouterStateSerializer` to `FullRouterStateSerializer`.
</div>

### @ngrx/component

#### Use global render strategy in zone-less mode

The native local rendering strategy is replaced by global in zone-less mode for better performance.

BEFORE:

The change detection is triggered via `changeDetectorRef.detectChanges` in zone-less mode.

AFTER:

The change detection is triggered via `ɵmarkDirty` in zone-less mode.

#### Add error as value to `LetDirective`'s context

The `$error` property from `LetDirective`'s view context is a thrown error or `undefined` instead of `true`/`false`.

BEFORE:

```html
<p *ngrxLet="obs$; $error as e">{{ e }}</p>
```

- `e` will be `true` when `obs$` emits error event.
- `e` will be `false` when `obs$` emits next/complete event.

AFTER:

```html
<p *ngrxLet="obs$; $error as e">{{ e }}</p>
```

- `e` will be thrown error when `obs$` emits error event.
- `e` will be `undefined` when `obs$` emits next/complete event.

#### add ability to pass non-observable values

1. The context of `LetDirective` is strongly typed when `null` or
   `undefined` is passed as input.

BEFORE:

```html
<p *ngrxLet="null as n">{{ n }}</p>
<p *ngrxLet="undefined as u">{{ u }}</p>
```

- The type of `n` is `any`.
- The type of `u` is `any`.

AFTER:

```html
<p *ngrxLet="null as n">{{ n }}</p>
<p *ngrxLet="undefined as u">{{ u }}</p>
```

- The type of `n` is `null`.
- The type of `u` is `undefined`.

---

2. Arrays, iterables, generator functions, and readable streams are
   not treated as observable-like inputs anymore. To keep the same behavior
   as in v13, convert the array/iterable/generator function/readable stream
   to observable using the `from` function from the `rxjs` package
   before passing it to the `LetDirective`/`PushPipe`.

BEFORE:

```ts
@Component({
template: `
  <p *ngrxLet="numbers as n">{{ n }}</p>
  <p>{{ numbers | ngrxPush }}</p>
`,
})
export class NumbersComponent {
    numbers = [1, 2, 3];
}
```

AFTER:

```ts
@Component({
template: `
  <p *ngrxLet="numbers$ as n">{{ n }}</p>
  <p>{{ numbers$ | ngrxPush }}</p>
`,
})
export class NumbersComponent {
    numbers$ = from([1, 2, 3]);
}
```

### @ngrx/schematics

#### Remove `defaultCollection`

Removed the `defaultCollection` option in favor of `schematicCollections`.
When the schematics are installed, `@ngrx/schematics` is added to the `schematicCollections` in the `angular.json` file.

<div class="alert is-helpful">
  A migration is provided to add `@ngrx/schematics` to the `schematicCollections`.
</div>
