# V15 Update Guide

## Angular CLI update

NgRx supports using the Angular CLI `ng update` command to update your dependencies. Migration schematics are run to make the upgrade smoother. These schematics will fix some of the breaking changes.

To update your packages to the latest released version, run the command below.

```sh
ng update @ngrx/store@15
```

## Dependencies

Version 15 has the minimum version requirements:

- Angular version 15.x
- Angular CLI version 15.x
- TypeScript version 4.8.x
- RxJS version ^6.5.3 || ^7.5.0

## Breaking changes

### @ngrx/store

#### Strict Selector Projector

The projector function on the selector is type-safe by default.
The projector function also has become strict for selectors with props.

BEFORE:

The projector is not type-safe, allowing for potential mismatch types in the projector function.

```ts
const mySelector = createSelector(
  () => 'one',
  () => 2,
  (one, two) => 3
)

mySelector.projector() // <- type is projector(...args: any[]): number
```

AFTER:

The projector is strict by default, but can be bypassed with an `any` type assertion to specify a less specific type.

```ts
const mySelector = createSelector(
  () => 'one',
  () => 2,
  (one, two) => 3
)

mySelector.projector() // <- Results in type error. Type is projector(s1: string, s2: number): number
```

To retain previous behavior

```ts
const mySelector = createSelector(
  () => 'one',
  () => 2,
  (one, two) => 3
)

(mySelector.projector as any)()
```

### @ngrx/effects

#### Removal of @Effect

The `@Effect` decorator is removed in favor of [`createEffect`](api/effects/createEffect).
This change also means that the ESLint rules @ngrx/no-effect-decorator-and-creator and @ngrx/no-effect-decorator are removed.

> A migration was added (in the v13 release) to upgrade existing codebases to the `createEffect` function.

BEFORE:

An effect is defined with the `@Effect` decorator.

```ts
@Effect()
data$ = this.actions$.pipe();
```

AFTER:

You need to define an effect with `createEffect`.

```ts
data$ = createEffect(() => this.actions$.pipe());
```

### @ngrx/router-store

#### Title

BREAKING CHANGE:

The property `title: string | undefined` is added to the `MinimalActivatedRouteSnapshot` interface when a title added to the route config.

BEFORE:

The `MinimalActivatedRouteSnapshot` interface doesn't contain the `title` property.

AFTER:

The `MinimalActivatedRouteSnapshot` interface contains the required `title` property.

### @ngrx/component

#### Removal of ReactiveComponentModule

The `ReactiveComponentModule` is removed in favor of [`LetModule`](/api/component/LetModule) and [`PushModule`](/api/component/PushModule).

BEFORE:

```ts
import { ReactiveComponentModule } from '@ngrx/component';

@NgModule({
  imports: [
    // ... other imports
    ReactiveComponentModule,
  ],
})
export class MyFeatureModule {}
```

AFTER:

```ts
import { LetModule, PushModule } from '@ngrx/component';

@NgModule({
  imports: [
    // ... other imports
    LetModule,
    PushModule,
  ],
})
export class MyFeatureModule {}
```
