# V18 Update Guide

## Angular CLI update

NgRx supports using the Angular CLI `ng update` command to update your dependencies. Migration schematics are run to make the upgrade smoother. These schematics will fix some of the breaking changes.

To update your packages to the latest released version, run the command below.

```sh
ng update @ngrx/store@18
```

## Dependencies

Version 18 has the minimum version requirements:

- Angular version 18.x
- Angular CLI version 18.x
- TypeScript version 5.x
- RxJS version ^6.5.x || ^7.5.0

## Breaking changes

### @ngrx/store

#### Merge `Action` and `TypedAction` interfaces

The Action and TypedAction interfaces are merged into one interface.
This change has a ng-update schematic that will automatically update your code.

BEFORE:

There was a separation between the Action and TypedAction interfaces.

AFTER:

The Action interface accepts a generic type parameter that represents the payload type (defaults to string).
The TypedAction interface is removed.

### @ngrx/effects

#### Remove `concatLatestFrom` operator

The `concatLatestFrom` operator has been removed from `@ngrx/effects` in favor of the `@ngrx/operators` package.
This change has a ng-update schematic that will automatically update your code.

BEFORE:

```ts
import { concatLatestFrom } from '@ngrx/effects';
```

AFTER:

```ts
import { concatLatestFrom } from '@ngrx/operators';
```

### @ngrx/component-store

#### Remove `tapResponse` operator

The `tapResponse` operator has been removed from `@ngrx/component-store` in favor of the `@ngrx/operators` package.
This change has a ng-update schematic that will automatically update your code.

BEFORE:

```ts
import { tapResponse  } from '@ngrx/component-store';
```

AFTER:

```ts
import { tapResponse  } from '@ngrx/operators';
```

### @ngrx/router-store

#### Include `string[]` as return type for `selectQueryParam`

The Angular router can return an array of query parameters. The `selectQueryParam` selector now includes `string[]` as a possible return type.

BEFORE:

The return type of `selectQueryParam` is `MemoizedSelector<V, string | undefined>`.I

AFTER:

The return type of `selectQueryParam` now includes `string[]`, making the return type `MemoizedSelector<V, string | string[] | undefined>`.

### @ngrx/eslint-plugin

#### Simplify configs

The rules have been regrouped into preconfigured configigurations to make it easier to find and configure them.
This change has been done to improve the developer experience while using ESLint v9.
The new configuration can be found in the documentation at https://ngrx.io/guide/eslint-plugin.

BEFORE:

Rules were grouped for a package, strict-mode, with(out) type-checking.

AFTER:

Rules are grouped per package. The differences were to small to further divide the rules in configurations.
If needed, you can always disable a rule.

