# V8 Update Guide

## Angular CLI update

NgRx supports using the Angular CLI `ng update` command to update your dependencies. Migration schematics are run to make the upgrade smoother. These schematics will fix breaking changes.

To update your packages to the latest released version, run the command below.

```sh
ng update @ngrx/store
```

## Dependencies

V8 has the minimum version requirements:

- Angular version 8
- TypeScript version 3.3.x
- RxJS version 6.x

## Breaking changes

### @ngrx/store

#### `META_REDUCERS` token

<div class="alert is-helpful">

A migration is provided to rename the `META_REDUCERS` token to `USER_PROVIDED_META_REDUCERS`

</div>

The `META_REDUCERS` token has been renamed to `USER_PROVIDED_META_REDUCERS`.

The `META_REDUCERS` token has become a multi token and can be used by
library authors.

#### Selectors with only a projector function aren't valid anymore

This change will make the usage of selectors more consistent.

BEFORE:

```ts
const getTodosById = createSelector(
  (state: TodoAppSchema, id: number) => state.todos.find(p => p.id === id)
);
```

AFTER:

```ts
const getTodosById = createSelector(
  (state: TodoAppSchema) => state.todos,
  (todos: Todo[], id: number) => todos.find(p => p.id === id)
);
```

### @ngrx/router-store

#### Required usage of `forRoot`

<div class="alert is-helpful">

A migration is provided and will append `forRoot` to `StoreRouterConnectingModule`

</div>

Usage of `forRoot` is now required for `StoreRouterConnectingModule`

BEFORE:

```ts
@NgModule({
  imports: [
    StoreRouterConnectingModule
  ]
})
export class AppModule {}
```

AFTER:

```ts
@NgModule({
  imports: [
    StoreRouterConnectingModule.forRoot()
  ]
})
export class AppModule {}
```

### @ngrx/entity

#### add undefined to Dictionary's index signature

`Dictionary` and `DictionaryNum` could be producing `undefined` but previous typings were not explicit about it.

### @ngrx/store-devtools

#### `actionsWhitelist` is renamed to `actionsSafelist`

BEFORE:

```ts
StoreDevtoolsModule.instrument({
  actionsWhitelist: ['...'],
})
```

AFTER:

```ts
StoreDevtoolsModule.instrument({
  actionsSafelist: ['...'],
})
```

#### `actionsBlacklist` is renamed to `actionsBlocklist`

BEFORE:

```ts
StoreDevtoolsModule.instrument({
  actionsBlacklist: ['...']
})
```

AFTER:

```ts
StoreDevtoolsModule.instrument({
  actionsBlocklist: ['...']
})
```

## @ngrx/data

### Renames

To stay consistent with the other `@ngrx/*` packages, the following has been renamed:

- `NgrxDataModule` is renamed to `EntityDataModule`
- `NgrxDataModuleWithoutEffects` is renamed to `EntityDataModuleWithoutEffects`
- `NgrxDataModuleConfig` is renamed to `EntityDataModuleConfig`

<div class="alert is-helpful">

The installation of `@ngrx/data` package via `ng add @ngrx/data` will remove `angular-ngrx-data` from the `package.json` and will also perform these renames.

</div>