# V9 Update Guide

## Angular CLI update

NgRx supports using the Angular CLI `ng update` command to update your dependencies. Migration schematics are run to make the upgrade smoother. These schematics will fix some of the breaking changes.

To update your packages to the latest released version, run the command below.

```sh
ng update @ngrx/store@9
```

## Dependencies

Version 9 has the minimum version requirements:

- Angular version 9.x
- Angular CLI version 9.x
- TypeScript version 3.7.x
- RxJS version 6.5.x

## Breaking changes

### @ngrx/store

#### Immutability checks are turned on by default

In the previous version of NgRx, [runtime checks](/guide/store/configuration/runtime-checks) were opt-in.
In this version, the immutability runtime check is turned on by default.

To turn them off use:

```ts
@NgModule({
  imports: [
    StoreModule.forRoot(reducers, {
      runtimeChecks: {
        strictStateImmutability: false,
        strictActionImmutability: false,
      },
    }),
  ],
})
export class AppModule {}
```

#### Change default value of minimal to true (Store Schematics)

This change only registers `StoreModule.forRoot({})` in the provided `module` with an empty array.
Before, it also registered an empty reducer.

#### Change default value of creators to true (Store Schematics)

Action and reducers creators are now the default, instead of defining Actions as classes, and reducers as switch-based method.

### @ngrx/effects

#### `resubscribeOnError` is renamed to `useEffectsErrorHandler`

The option `resubscribeOnError` has been renamed to `useEffectsErrorHandler`.
This change is made to make it possible to provide a [custom effect error handler](/guide/effects/lifecycle#customizing-the-effects-error-handler).

Before:

```ts
// decorator
@Effect({ resubscribeOnError: false })
effect$ = ...

// with createEffect
effect$ = createEffect(() => ..., {resubscribeOnError: false })
```

After:

```ts
// decorator
@Effect({ useEffectsErrorHandler: false })
effect$ = ...

// with createEffect
effect$ = createEffect(() => ..., { useEffectsErrorHandler: false })
```

<div class="alert is-helpful">

A migration is provided to rename the occurrences.

</div>

#### Limit retries to 10 by default

By default, effects are resubscribed up to 10 errors, previously this was unlimited.

To change the number, implement a [custom effect error handler](/guide/effects/lifecycle#customizing-the-effects-error-handler), or [change the number](/guide/effects/lifecycle#customizing-the-effects-error-handler) TK add example to docs and provide link here.

#### Dispatch init actions once

Previously, when an Effect implemented the `OnInitEffects` lifecycle hook, the defined action would be dispatched after each time a lazy loaded module was loaded with the same Effect class.
Now, the action will only be dispatched after the first module is loaded.

#### Change default value of minimal to true (Effects Schematics)

This change only registers `EffectsModule.forRoot()` in the provided `module` with an empty array.
Before, it also registered an empty effect class.

#### Change default value of creators to true (Effects Schematics)

Effects creators are now the default, instead of defining Effects with the `@Effect()` decorator.

### @ngrx/router-store

#### Minimal router state is the default

Minimal router state becomes the default, this also means that the [`MinimalRouterStateSerializer`](/guide/router-store/configuration) will be used by default. The minimal only contains state that is serializable, see [`MinimalActivatedRouteSnapshot`](/api/router-store/MinimalActivatedRouteSnapshot) for more info.

The event on the payload of the dispatched actions will only contain the router event id and the url, instead of the Angular RouterEvent.

<div class="alert is-helpful">

A migration is provided and adds the `DefaultRouterStateSerializer` if a serializer isn't set.

</div>

## Deprecations

### @ngrx/entity

#### `addAll`

The `addAll` entity adapter method has been deprecated, in favor of `setAll`.
`setAll`'s behavior is identical to `addAll`, but the name covers its intention better.

BEFORE:

```ts
adapter.addAll([person1, person2, person3], state);
```

AFTER:

```ts
adapter.setAll([person1, person2, person3], state);
```
